---
layout: post
title: 'Warehouse Management System'
date: '2022-11-10 08:00:00 +0800'
categories: WMS
---

> Trade isn't about goods. Trade is about information. Goods sit in the warehouse until information moves them.

## Introduction

## Why does a company need a WMS?

The potential benefits of having a WMS in place include the following:
* real-time stock visibility and traceability;
* improved productivity;
* accurate stock records;
* reduction in miss-picks;
* automatic replenishment;
* reductions in returns;
* accurate reporting;
* improved responsiveness;
* remote data visibility;
* improved customer service; and
* minimized paperwork.

## Choosing a WMS

## The process

## Selecting the right WMS
* Form a project team.
    * logical thinking
* Define, record, review and improve current processes. Don't automate redundant or poor processes.
    * collect and collate as much information as possible about current processes and procedures.
* Create a list of key functions required of the enw system.
    * must-have
* Incorporate any future growth plans in your specification.
* List the benefits to your company of a WMS.
    * maximize the productivity of your labour
    * increase both space and equipment utilization
    * improve communication 
    * increase accuracy
* Research and approach a select number of vendors and select a small number with experience of providing solutions for your market sector.
* Visit reference sites to look at operational effectiveness and dicuss the benefits the WMS system has brought about since implementation.
* Produce a return on investment (ROI) report.
    * Together with an ROI calculation you need to be certain of the following:
        * the potential for a WMS to give you improved stock accuracy - by reducing errors, providing real-time information and enabling perpetual inventory counts;
        * the potential for increased productivity and cost savings - through improved labour, space and equipment utilization;
        * the need for imporved traceability - a WMS can give you two-way traceability, almost as a by-product of being in place; and
        * improved customer and client service - through overall improved warehouse control, improved pick and despatch accuracy.
    * The cost of a WMS
        * License
        * Professional services
        * Development costs
        * Support cost
        * Hardware and infrastructure costs

## What to look for in a system
* Ability to interface with other systems
* Modular and scalable
    * accounts packages
    * ERP and MRP systems
    * transport management system
* Accessible
    * performance reports
    * cost-to-serve modelling
    * standard inventory interrogation
* Ease of operation
* Standard system
* Meets specific needs
    * tracking lot and serial numbers (if required)
    * managing 'best before' and 'sell by' dates
    * the ability to quarantine items
    * identifying hazardous goods
    * being able to calculate royalties
* Capable of supporting warehouse best practice
    * pallet put-away is couple with pallet retrieval, known as task interleaving
    * automated receipt
    * directed put-away
    * optimum pick sequences
    * replenishment tasks
    * despatch management
    * warehouse mapping
    * monitor the velocity of items and locate them accordingly (slotting); or
    * provide the data in a format that can be transferred to programmes that have slotting functionality
* Reporting capabilities

## Selecting a partner
* Experience
* Longevity
* Choose a vendor who emphasizes the benefits of the software, not just the features
* Ensure that the vendor can supply not only the system but also the installation, training, maintenance and help-desk service
* Verify that your prospective WMS provider is reinvesting significant capital into research and development, and future product enhancements
* Choose a vendor you are comfortable working with
* Choose a partner that has reasonable modification rates and is wiling to set up a realistic bugdet based on your needs assessment, prior to formalizing the relationship
* Resources
* Select a partner that has an adequately staffed help desk that is available during your company's hours of operation
* Select a partner that has established partnership with hardware providers

## Before the final decision


## Implemenentation
* Discuss with the business a suitable time to introduce a new system.
* Agree a realistic implementation plan with the vendor and your project team.
* Guarantee the availability of key staff during the implementation phase.
* Propose deadlines you are confident in achieving.
* Have specific milestones in place.
* Appiont super users from amongst your staff who can train new staff and identify problem areas.
* Develop a training agenda for all staff and include it in your new staff induction programme.
* Don't look to modify the system until it is in place and working as initially specified.
* Keep reviewing the timeline and act on any slippage.

## SaaS
* lower cost of entry;
* reduced start-up costs;
* a smaller learning curve which means quicker adoption across your workforce;
* scalability and easy accessibility;
* instant upgrades;
* user-driven innovation; and
* ability to turn on and off as required, eg to run a temporary wharehouse operation.

## Summary and conculsion

The key to a successful purchase and implementation is:
* preparation and allocating sufficient time and resource to the project;
* getting your processes right before introducing the system;
* producing a base level so that the full benefits of the sytem can be compared;
* getting the buy-in and involvement of senior management and warehouse staff;
* choosing the moset appropriate supplier; and
* ensuring that all staff are trained to an accpetable level.

Warehouse efficiency is key to effectively managing a supply chain and achieving best-in-class performance. Technology can be an enabler in this respect.
